cmdline
Force command line installation mode. This mode simply prints out text and does not allow any interactivity.
All options must be specified either in a kickstart file or on the command line. If all required options
are not specified, the installation will terminate immediately. If running in PXE, network or media
installation mode Anaconda will also reboot the machine. This can be prevented by passing the "inst.nokill"
boot option.

graphical
Force graphical installation. A graphical installation implies that the installed system will
boot up into graphical.target, using whichever display manager is in use by the default desktop
(gdm for GNOME, kdm for KDE).

text
Force text mode installation. This also implies that the installed system will boot up in text mode
instead of to the graphical login screen.

profile
Use a profile configuration file with the specified profile id. The installer will be
customized based on configuration files from /etc/anaconda/profile.d that are specific
for this profile.

proxy
Use the given proxy settings when performing an installation from a HTTP/HTTPS/FTP source.
The PROXY_URL can be specified like this: [PROTOCOL://][USERNAME[:PASSWORD]@]HOST[:PORT]

debug
Run the installer in the debugging mode.

ks
Gives the location of the kickstart file to be used for installation. The KICKSTART_URL
supports fetching kickstarts from HTTP/S, FTP, NFS, from a local file, from a local
harddrive, from an optical disk and from BIOS RAID sets. For details on the KICKSTART_URL
syntax see the Anaconda options wiki page: http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Anaconda_Boot_Options

kickstart
Gives the local file path to use for kickstart. Normally only used when running anaconda
from the cmdline.  This option is not supported for live installations.

ksstrict
With this option, all warnings from reading the kickstart file will be treated as errors.
They will be printed on the output and the installation will terminate immediately. By default,
the warnings are printed to logs and the installation continues.

rescue
Start the rescue environment instead of installation.  This option is not supported for
live installations.

multilib
Enable dnf's multlib_policy of "all" instead of the default of "best".

method
This option is deprecated in favor of the repo option. For now, it does the same thing as repo,
but will be removed in the future.

askmethod
Do not automatically configure the Installation Source spoke, but require the user to enter it and
choose an option. If you don't want to wait for the default configuration to be processed before
you can enter the spoke and change it, you can pass this option.

repo
This option tells Anaconda where to find the packages for installation. This option must point to a
valid package repository (or, for some protocols, a Fedora DVD ISO image). It is analogous to the older
method option, but repo makes it more clear exactly what is meant. This option may appear only once
on the command line. It corresponds to the kickstart command install (whereas kickstart command repo
is used for additional repositories). As of Fedora 16, you can (optionally) add a specific .iso file
to the path. If no inst.root or inst.stage2 parameter is passed, this location will also be used
as the source for the installer runtime image.
For more information about the REPO_URL format check the Anaconda option documentation, available on:
http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Anaconda_Boot_Options

stage2
The STAGE2_URL specifies a path to a repository containing a stage2 (squashfs.img) file instead of to an
installation source. Follows the same syntax as the repo option. If this parameter is provided,
it takes precedence over all other methods of finding the install.img. Otherwise, Anaconda will attempt
to find the install.img first on any existing CD, and then from the location given by repo.
If only the stage2 option is given without repo, Anaconda will use whatever repos the installed
system would have enabled by default for installation. For instance, an install of a Fedora release
will attempt to use the Fedora mirrorlist given by /etc/yum.repos.d/fedora.repo from that release.

addrepo
This option adds additional repositories to the installation. These repositories are used during
installation but they are not saved to the installed system. Repository must be specified in the
'<name>,<url>' format, where name can't contain space and <url> have to be in a supported format.
Supported formats can be found here: http://rhinstaller.github.io/anaconda/boot-options.html#inst-addrepo

noverifyssl
Prevents Anaconda from verifying the ssl certificate for all HTTPS connections with an exception of the
additional kickstart repos (where --noverifyssl can be set per repo).

liveinst
Run in live installation mode.

resolution
Run GUI installer in the resolution specified, "1024x768" for example.

xtimeout
Specify the timeout in seconds for starting X server or Wayland compositor.

rdp
Enable Remote Desktop Protocol-controlled installation. You will need to connect to the machine using an RDP
client application. An RDP install implies that the installed system will boot up in in multiuser.target
instead of to the graphical login screen. Multiple RDP clients can connect. When using rdp you also need to set
RDP username and password using the rdp.username and rdp.password options. This option is not supported for
live installations.

rdp.username
Set password for the RDP session. To enable RDP access, also use the rdp and rdp.password options.

rdp.password
Set password for the RDP session. To enable RDP access, also use the rdp and rdp.username options.
keymap
Keyboard layout to use during installation and on the installed system. Valid KEYMAP values
are those which can be used for the keyboard kickstart command.

lang
Language to use for the installation. LANG should be a language code which is valid to be used
with the lang kickstart command.

syslog
Once installation is up and running, send log messages to the syslog process on HOST,
and optionally, on TCP port PORT. Requires the remote syslog process to accept incoming
connections.

virtiolog
Forward logs through the named virtio port (a character device at /dev/virtio-ports/<name>).
If not provided, a port named org.fedoraproject.anaconda.log.0 will be used by default, if found.

noselinux
Disable SELinux usage on the installed system.

selinux
Enable SELinux usage in the installed system (default). Note that when used as a boot option,
"selinux" and "inst.selinux" are not the same. The "selinux" option is picked up by both the kernel
and Anaconda, but "inst.selinux" is processed only by Anaconda. So when "selinux=0" is used,
SELinux will be disabled both in the installation environment and in the installed system,
but when "inst.selinux=0" is used SELinux will only be disabled in the installed system.
Also note that while SELinux is running in the installation environment by default, it is
running in permissive mode so disabling it there does not make much sense.

gpt
Prefer creation of GPT disklabels. This option is deprecated and will be removed in future releases.

disklabel
Prefer creation of the specified disk label type. Specify "gpt" to prefer creation of GPT disk
labels. Specify "mbr" to prefer creation of MBR disk labels if supported.

noibft
Disable iBFT usage during the installation.

ibft
Enable iBFT (iSCSI Boot Firmware Table) usage during the installation (default).

geoloc
Configure geolocation usage in Anaconda. Geolocation is used to pre-set language and time zone.
The following values for PROVIDER_ID are supported: 0 - disable geolocation, "provider_fedora_geoip"
- use the Fedora GeoIP API (default) and "provider_hostip" - use the Hostip.info GeoIP API.

geoloc-use-with-ks
Enable geolocation even during a kickstart installation (both partial and fully automatic).
Otherwise geolocation is only enabled during a fully interactive installation.

nomount
Don't automatically mount any installed Linux partitions in rescue mode.

updates
Path to an updates image that is on local filesystem or available over FTP or HTTP.
UPDATES_URL must be either a local filesystem path, a network URL or <disk>:<path> where
<disk> can be one of sdX, /dev/sdX, LABEL=xxx, UUID=xxx and <path> defaults
to /updates.img if missing. See the Anaconda docs for more details about the path specification.
Please note that the updates image only updates the installation environment and is completely
unrelated to package updates.

dirinstall
Use the device mounted at /mnt/sysimage as the installation
destination. The --dirinstall and --image options are mutually
exclusive. The /mnt/sysimage directory can be overridden by
setting the ANACONDA_ROOT_PATH environmental variable before
starting anaconda.

image
Specification of disk image file to be used as installation
destination. IMAGE_SPEC must have format <path>[:<name>] where
<path> specifies the path of an image file and an optional <name>
component is used to identify the disk during installation.
<path> must be a local path but it may be relative or absolute.
If <name> is not specified, a name is synthesized from the
basename of <path>. <name> may not contain a colon or a slash.
This option may be used multiple times to specify multiple disk
images. It is an error to specify the same <path> twice or to use
duplicate names. The --image and --dirinstall options are
mutually exclusive.

memcheck
Check if the system has enough RAM to complete the installation
and abort if it doesn't. Please note that this check is approximate
and that memory usage during installation depends on the package
selection, user interface (graphical vs text) and other parameters.

nomemcheck
Do not check if the system has enough RAM to complete the installation.
Of course, any attempt to install with less than the safe minimum amount
of memory may fail and is unsupported.

leavebootorder
Boot the drives in their existing order, to override the default of booting
into the newly installed drive on Power Systems servers and EFI systems.
This is useful for systems that, for example, should network boot first
before falling back to a local boot.

noeject
Don't eject the installation CD/DVD (if any) once the installation
has been completed. Ignored for image, directory and livecd installs.

extlinux
Use extlinux as the bootloader. Note that there's no attempt to validate
that this will work for your platform or anything; it assumes that if you
ask for it, you want to try.

sdboot
Use systemd-boot as the bootloader. Note that there's no attempt to validate
that this will work for your platform or anything; it assumes that if you
ask for it, you want to try.

nombr

If nombr is specified the grub2 bootloader will be installed but the
MBR will not be updated.  Therefore, when the system reboot, a previously
installed OS will be booted.  /etc/grub.d/40_custom can be used with
manually created menuentrys which can use configfile to point to the
grub.cfg on the newly installed OS.

mpathfriendlynames
Tell multipathd to use user friendly names when naming devices during the installation.
See the multipathd documentation for more info.

remotelog
Send all the logs to a remote host:port using a TCP connection. The connection will
be retried if there is no listener (ie. won't block the installation).

kexec
Reboot the system using kexec with the new kernel and initrd. This will result in
a faster reboot by skipping the BIOS/Firmware and bootloader steps.

nosave
This option controls what installation results should not be saved to the installed system,
valid values are: "input_ks", "output_ks", "all_ks", "logs" and "all".
The "input_ks" value disables saving of the input kickstart (if any), "output_ks" disables saving of the output
kickstart generated by Anaconda, "all_ks" disables saving of both input and output kickstarts, "logs" disables saving
of all installation logs and "all" disables saving of all kickstarts and all logs. Multiple values can be combined
as a comma separated list, for example: "all_ks,logs"

waitfornet
Wait for network connectivity at the beginning of the installation with the
timeout in seconds specified as a mandatory value of the option.
